Mateus M. Furquim Mendonça
Machine Learning and Software Engineer
@ mfurquimdev@gmail.com

 mfurquimdev

 in/mfurquimdev

 mfurquim.dev

 Brazil

Professional Summary
Highly skilled software engineer with over 10 years of experience and a diverse background. Committed to team growth and innovation
through effective mentoring and collaboration. Strong problem-solving skills with a passion for delivering high-quality software solutions.

Work Experience
Machine Learning Engineer

 Jul 2025 – Present

Amaris | AB InBev

 Remote

Developed scalable microservices using a multi-tier routing topology in RabbitMQ to decouple publish-subscribe communication.
 Implemented an in-memory Redis caching layer to meet low-latency requirements for real-time AI model inference.
 Applied the Repository Pattern abstract data access logic, allowing for parallel development across teams and improving code maintainability.
 Monitored production performance and system health using New Relic, ensuring high availability and reliability of deployed ML services.

Back-end Developer

 Jan 2021 – Jul 2025

DevGrid | Voltaware

 Remote

Managed several microservices that employ machine learning algorithms to estimate house appliances’ energy consumption.
 Achieved up to 59% improvement in Python write operations on Cassandra through the safe utilization of unlogged batches.
 Iteratively improved domain models following Domain Driven Design approach, increasing efficiency in delivering new features.

Embedded Software Developer

 Nov 2019 – Aug 2020

Autotrac

 Brasilia, DF - Brazil

Maintained security and logistic features of an embedded system for a customized hardware and Linux kernel.
 Employed dependency injection and other SOLID principles to enhance C++ code quality and maintainability.
 Implemented monitoring solutions to gather real-time performance data, ensuring optimal system efficiency and responsiveness.

DevOps Consultant

 Jan 2019 – Nov 2019

IBM

 Brasilia, DF - Brazil

Collaborated with multiple teams to improve observability of the back-end services of a prominent banking institution.
 Contributed to self-discovering services feature using etcd key-value store, consistent hashing and a federation of Prometheus.
 Employed PromQL to develop alerts that detected low performance of new deployments and potential DDoS attacks.

Intern Experience

Education

Security Software Researcher

 Nov 2015 – Jul 2016

Machine Learning DevOps Engineer

 Brasilia, DF - Brazil

Udacity

Enhanced an Intrusion Detection System with unsupervised machine learning to
strengthen the security measures of the Brazilian Army.

 Online

 Configured a Debian server to capture all network packets in promiscuous mode using
Wireshark and replay them in a controlled environment.
 Successfully detected masked malicious network packets using K-Means clustering
algorithm and distributed processing with Spark and Hadoop.

Universidade de Brasilia (UnB)

LADES at UnB

Software Engineer Intern

 Jan 2015 – Apr 2015

CanAssist at UVic

 Victoria, BC - Canada

Developed an elderly care embedded system which notifies relatives in case of
emergency.
 Devised an automated data-driven regression testing methodology, improving the
efficiency of the testing cycle and ensuring alignment with requirements.
 Accomplished a low resource consumption of Raspberry Pi by rotating log using the
C/C++ language and the Qt Framework.

 Nov 2021 – Dez 2022

BEng. Software Engineering
 Brasilia, DF - Brazil

University of Victoria (UVic)
 Victoria, BC - Canada 

 Bash

* Regex

 GitFlow

 CI/CD

 Jan 2014 – Apr 2015

Languages
 Portuguese

Mother Tongue

 English

Fluent

 Python

Working Knowledge

 C/C++

Working Knowledge

 Go

Intermediate Knowledge

 Rust

 Linux

 Mar 2011 – Jul 2017

 Docker

Basic Knowledge

 RESTful

 SQL / NoSQL

Made with typst

